new article: tech & product org (#4)
MYTRAFFIC/mytraffic.github.io: _posts/tech/2021-08-31-TandP-org.md

> ---

Author: oui d'accord avec toi

manager essentially focused on specs and the delivery process, and one
part-time designer providing the web app mockups. We were lacking time and
people to properly dig into the product discovery and user research activities.

This organization worked well back in the time when we were 5 or 6 in the team,
but it began to show its limits when we grew to 15. We hence decided to change
it to create more focus, to be closer to our customers and regain ownership.

## mytraffic tech & product organization, 2021 edition

*Inspired* by Marty Cagan, we decided to try shifting from a *components teams*
organization to a *[product teams](https://svpg.com/product-vs-feature-teams/)*
organization. In Cagan's terminology, product teams are teams composed of
different disciplines *empowered to solve problems in ways customers love, yet
work for business*.

### Building a true product centric organization

To do so we first needed to drastically strengthen :muscle: our product
competencies by recruiting external talents. Laura joined mytraffic as Chief
Product Officer, Pauline and Olivier as product managers, and Brice decided to

> focus on a platform product manager role after two years of prolific

Author: moi j'aime

contributions as a lead software engineer. This scaled the number of product

> managers from one and a half to five in a few months!! :100: This gave us more

Reviewer: **remark:** C'est très subjectif, mais je trouve que tu y es allé un peu fort sur les emojis, celui-ci en particulier me parait pas super utile

opportunities than ever to listen to our customers and to perform product
discovery.

> ### Defining our JTBD

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Defining our Jobs To Be Done
```

Un peu étrange l'utilisation de l'acronyme avant de l'avoir défini

Then we needed to define the number of product teams we needed and what would
be the prioritary scopes that we wanted them to embrace. **We began changing
the way we think** about our SaaS platform and our customers. What we initially
built was a very generic way to present our data, and every customer would see
it on the platform in exactly the same way. This made sense when the team was
small, in order to scale in parallel on different business verticals without
having to focus on only one or two. But in 2021, we understood that if we
wanted to **increase usage** on our platform we had to offer some customization
and to show the same data differently depending on the customer.  We revisited
the concept of [Job To Be
Done](https://hbr.org/2016/09/know-your-customers-jobs-to-be-done) (JTBD) and
decided to rethink our SaaS platform around it. The reasoning is in the end
quite simple: each and every mytraffic's customer comes to our platform because

> she needs actionable data that will help her performing her day to day job.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
she needs actionable data that will help her perform her day to day job.
```

:arrow_right: We should then design our product so that it enables doing this
job as easily as possible.

To make things more tangible, here are two Jobs To Be Done that we are
currently (end of 2021) working on, and their value proposition:
- **monitoring assets performance** (*perform*)  
  Build meaningful analytics to follow your assets performance over time,
  compare assets in your network and with your competitors, make data-driven

>   decisions. Report positive and negative performance and dig into data.

Reviewer: **improvement**: je ne pense pas que le lecteur comprenne le terme asset, je pense que ca serait plus simple de dire "store" ou "shopping center". (ou de définir asset, mais ca me paraît long pour pas grand chose)

Author: j'ai repris le wording officiel produit ça ne me choque pas trop perso

- **developing a network of assets** (*develop*)  
  Find the best location for your next store.  Leverage your deep understanding
  of the market with our powerful engine to build your expansion strategy.

>   Easily create your business plan to convince your stakeholders

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Easily create your business plan to convince your stakeholders.
```

### The final org

We then decided to split our teams into two groups:

- **user teams** that are each focused on one JTBD module on our web platform.
  These teams build the best user experience possible for our customers coming
  to [mytraffic.io](https://app.mytraffic.io), providing them with the data and
  insights they need to complete important tasks in their day to day job. We
  currently have three of them:
    - one for *perform*
    - one for *develop*,
    - and we plan to create more as we start working on more new modules!
- **platform teams** that are focused on providing data, algorithms and R&D
  supporting one or more JTBD. We currently have three of them:
    - one for our *pedestrian flow* algorithm

>     - one for our *vehicle flow* algorithm

Reviewer: **suggestion:** est-ce que ca vaudrait le coup d'expliquer rapidement ce qu'est chaque alogrithme ? Par exemple "the number of pedestrians passing by a given address on a given week"

    - one team focused on data quality & monitoring

> Why making this distinction between user and platform teams you may ask?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Why make this distinction between user and platform teams you may ask?
```

Aren't you back to the initial situation with component teams, waterfall, and

> so on? Very good question! In fact we realized that it did not make sense to

Reviewer: C'est un super cas d'usage pour les petits encarts de question :P

try to smash together our data generation and data presentation activities in
fully cross-functional (from R&D data scientists to web designers) teams.

Designing and improving algorithms takes time… While you can have a lot done
while working on a web interface for one or two weeks, you probably need one or
two months to get anything meaningful while working on an algoritm to infer

> real pedestrian flows from sparse GPS data. We thought it made sense to have
> separate kind of teams for different temporalities (R&D vs traditional software
> development).

Reviewer: **suggestion:** la formulation au passé est étrange, c'est toujours vrai

```suggestion
real pedestrian flows from sparse GPS data. We think it makes sense to have
separate kind of teams with different velocities (R&D vs traditional software
development).
```
